# Debugging with Fiddler Everywhere: Scanning for 404 and 500 Status Codes

Fiddler has proven itself as a trusted Windows-based tool for diagnosing and debugging network issues during web and desktop app development. You may have heard about this Fiddler Everywhere thing - it's the NEW cross-platform version of Fiddler that shares the same core engine, but with a modern UI and improved experience!

In this blog series, we are looking at a variety of real world scenarios that can be effectively addressed with Fiddler Everywhere. Today we are going to look into how to effectively scan for 404 and 500 errors while testing some user scenarios.

> **NOTE:** Fiddler Classic (the original Fiddler) isn't going anywhere! You can still download Fiddler and use it like you always have on Windows.

## Today's Scenario

As a developer, I have a set of user scenarios that my app addresses. Since it's <s>an ancient app</s> well-loved app, it's massive and I'd like to scan for any potential 404 or 500 errors that may not be immediately visible when casually using the app. Maybe a background service is throwing a 500 error or there are some missing images throwing 404s.

Either way, let's see how quickly Fiddler Everywhere can help us achieve this task.

## Fiddler Everywhere's Solution

Since Fiddler Everywhere intercepts *literally* every network request coming/going to/from your apps (whether HTTP or HTTPS even), it's actually quite easy for us to track all of these network sessions and quickly sniff-out any erroneous requests.

1) Open Fiddler Everywhere and toggle the **Live Traffic** option to **capturing**:

IMAGE

2) Open your web or desktop app you are working with - and use it as you normally would to test out your user scenarios.

3) Back in Fiddler Everywhere, start filtering only those sessions that pertain to your app. For instance, if I were accessing a specific web app, I might filter the requests by URL:

IMAGE

4) Now that we are only seeing sessions from our web or desktop app, I can add another filter to only show me 404 or 500 errors:

IMAGE

Done! 🎉

## Summary

Fiddler Everywhere can help us diagnose and resolve many different types of issues you may commonly run into.

Start your journey with Fiddler Everywhere by downloading it today on either macOS, Linux, or Windows!